Stream Workers - Getting Started revisions (#467)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/cep/getting-started-stream-workers.md

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Getting Started with Stream Workers
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> This page explains how to create a stream worker that reads data added to a collection and sends the data to a stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page explains how to create a stream worker that reads data added to a collection and sends the data to a stream. After you create the stream worker, there are instructions for testing it. 
```

## Create a Stream Worker

> Refer to the [Stream Workers](/cep/index.md) section for an explanation of how stream workers function.

Reviewer: Good addition, but I'm not sure this link is correct. Shouldn't it just be the filename, since they are in the same folder?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Stream Workers](index.md) section for an explanation of how stream workers function.
```

1. [Log in to your Macrometa account](https://auth-play.macrometa.io/).

> 1. Click **Stream Worker**.

Reviewer: Don't forget to update this on the 17.12 branch after you merge to be correct for the new side menu.

> 1. Click **Stream Worker**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Stream Workers**.
```

Reviewer: Note the changes I made to the Enrich Data procedure, apply as appropriate.

> 1. In the Editor tab, you must define the stream worker. Copy and paste the following code block in the code editor on the Editor tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Editor tab, define the stream worker. Copy and paste the following code block in the code editor on the Editor tab.
```

> ```sql

Reviewer: Take a look at the numbering before and after the code block in your build. Right now (on mine, anyway), the numbering is restarting after the code block. You can fix that by indenting the whole code block one tab. VSC is clever enough to allow you to do it all at once, just select the whole block and then tab.

@App:name('sample-cargo-app')

> @App:description('Basic Stream application to demonstrate reading data from a collection and sending it to a stream.  The stream & collection will be created automatically if they do not already exist.')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@App:description('Basic stream worker to demonstrate reading data from a collection and sending it to a stream. The stream and collection are created automatically if they do not already exist.')
```

@App:qlVersion('2')

/**

> Testing the Stream Worker:

Reviewer: Don't forget to update these instructions to more closely match what you wrote. Also, lowercase stream worker, stream, and console.

    1. Open Stream `SampleCargoAppDestStream` in Console. The output can be monitored here.

>     2. Upload following data into `SampleCargoAppInputTable` C8DB Collection.

Reviewer: Watch out for "C8DB" anything. That is outdated language, either remove it wherever you see it or replace it with Macrometa, whichever makes sense in the context.

Reviewer: But not capitalized. :)

        {"weight": 1}
        {"weight": 2}
        {"weight": 3}
        {"weight": 4}
        {"weight": 5}

    3. Following messages would be shown on the `SampleCargoAppDestStream` Stream Console.
        [2021-08-27T14:12:15.795Z] {"weight":1}
        [2021-08-27T14:12:15.799Z] {"weight":2}
        [2021-08-27T14:12:15.805Z] {"weight":3}
        [2021-08-27T14:12:15.809Z] {"weight":4}
        [2021-08-27T14:12:15.814Z] {"weight":5}
*/

-- Defines `SampleCargoAppInputTable` Source.
CREATE SOURCE SampleCargoAppInputTable WITH (type = 'database', collection = "SampleCargoAppInputTable", collection.type="doc" , replication.type="global", map.type='json') (weight int);

-- Define `SampleCargoAppDestStream` Stream.
CREATE SINK STREAM SampleCargoAppDestStream (weight int);

-- Data Processing
@info(name='Query')
INSERT INTO SampleCargoAppDestStream
SELECT weight
FROM SampleCargoAppInputTable;
```

1. Click **Validate**. Macrometa checks to see that your code is valid.
1. Click **Save**.
1. Select edge locations, and then click **Save**. The locations that you select represent where the data for this stream worker will live.

> 1. Click **Publish** to publish your stream worker. When you do this, it will begin to run the code as defined and will continue until you unpublish it.

Reviewer: Consider adding one more step, something like.

1. Click the **Stream Workers** tab. Macrometa displays a list of stream workers and their status, including `sample-cargo-app`.

Reviewer: As a new user, this step might be appropriate so that they will then know where to check what stream workers they have going.

:::note

> The default`qlVersion` is `2`. Version 1 is only used for backwards compatibility with deprecated stream workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default `qlVersion` is `2`. Version 1 is only used for backwards compatibility with deprecated stream workers.
```

Reviewer: Not sure this note makes sense here, perhaps up in the Metadata section of the index.md.

:::

## Test the Stream Worker

Use the following procedure to verify that the stream worker functions as expected.

### 1. Open a Stream Window

The Macrometa Streams console does not persist messages, so to see them, you must have the console open before you send.

1. In a new tab or window, open the Macrometa console.
1. Click **Streams**.
1. Click **c8locals.SampleCargoAppDestStream**.

### 2. Add Data to Collection and View Stream

Run the following query using one of the methods described in [Running Queries](../../queryworkers/running-queries.md) to add the records to the collection. Each line is a separate record.

```sql
LET data = [
    {"weight":1},
    {"weight":2},
    {"weight":3},
    {"weight":4},
    {"weight":5},
   ]

FOR d IN data
    INSERT d INTO SampleCargoAppInputTable
```

> The stream worker pulls the transaction information and sends it to the stream. In the stream console, you will see results similar to the following:

Reviewer: I don't think the stream worker pulls anything, I think the collection sends the information on the stream and the stream worker listens and broadcasts the weight. @StoyanTc, can you confirm?

I wonder if we should add more info to the data, like a location or height or piece count, so that it shows more specifically what the stream worker is doing?

Reviewer: Pretty sure that the collection (which I think has stream enabled, double check) is streaming the records, and the stream worker listens and broadcasts the messages to the other stream.

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Getting Started with Stream Workers
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Steps from '../_partials/_get-started-steps.md';

This article is an introduction to using stream workers with the Macrometa GDN console.

> <Prerequisites />

Reviewer: Delete this, you haven't imported it.

## Get Started with Stream Workers

This page guides you through creating a stream worker and updating it.

> <Steps />

Reviewer: These are the wrong steps. This is the steps for running code in the IDE. You need to write steps that will get the user to log in and get to the write place in the console to do it. 

The original instructions, which you can view in Prod, are actually not terrible. I suggest using those as a starting point. 

Remember, we want the shortest possible "time to wow" that we can get. The biggest issue I have with the original, aside from the small detail of not telling me how or where to log in, is that it does not explain what I am doing or why very well. I have no clue what "SweetProductionData" and the streams are doing for me.

If you want to skip the explanation and just run the code, then go directly to the [Full Demo File](#full-demo-file).

### Step 1. Define Query Name

> Write a name and description. If no `qlVersion` is specified, default is `2`. Do not change this value unless you are working with a version 1 stream.

Reviewer 2: I don't think `version 1 stream` gives the correct idea. Could you change it to `stream worker written in query language version 1` or something to give that idea?
cc: @StoyanTc

Reviewer 3: I think this should be changed like this: `The default qlVersion is 2 if not specified, qlVersion='1' is only for backward compatibility and is deprecated.`

```sql
@App:name('sample-cargo-app')

> @App:description('Basic Stream application to demonstrate reading data from input stream and store it in the collection. The stream & collection will be created automatically if they do not already exist.')

Reviewer 2: Shall we change `Basic Stream application` to `Basic Stream worker` to keep it consistent?
cc: @StoyanTc

Reviewer: Yes, in all cases we should replace "stream application" with "stream worker".

@App:qlVersion('2')
```

### Step 2. Create Source

> Example to create a source for a stream worker.

Reviewer: I'm a new user. You need to explain to me what a source is and how that applies to what I am doing.

```sql
-- Defines `SampleCargoAppInputTable` Source.
CREATE SOURCE SampleCargoAppInputTable WITH (type = 'database', collection = "SampleCargoAppInputTable", collection.type="doc" , replication.type="global", map.type='json') (weight int);
```

### Step 3. Create Sink

> Example to create a sink for a stream worker.

Reviewer: Remember, I am a new user. I don't know what a sink is.

```sql
-- Defines `SampleCargoAppDestStream` Stream.
CREATE SINK STREAM SampleCargoAppDestStream (weight int);
```

### Step 4. Write and Save Query

> Example query that adds data from the source into the sink.

Reviewer: Good explanation, could use a little more detail to explain how it matters in this use case.

```sql
-- Data Processing
@info(name='Query')
INSERT INTO SampleCargoAppDestStream
SELECT weight
FROM SampleCargoAppInputTable;
```

### Step 5. Add Data to the Source

> Upload the following data to your source. In this case, it's a collection called `SampleCargoAppInputTable`.

Reviewer: As a new user, I have no idea how to do that. Take a look at the C8QL query I added in [Enrich Data with a Collection](https://www.macrometa.com/docs/cep/enrich-data/enrich-data-with-collection), that's an easy way to do that task.

```sql
{"weight": 1}
{"weight": 2}
{"weight": 3}
{"weight": 4}
{"weight": 5}
```

> View the stream output in the GUI for `SampleCargoAppDestStream`. You will see results similar to the following:

Reviewer: Again, I'm a new user. I don't know how to do that. Were you able to do this step?

```sql
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.795Z] {"weight":1}
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.799Z] {"weight":2}
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.805Z] {"weight":3}
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.809Z] {"weight":4}
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.814Z] {"weight":5}
```

> ## Full Demo File

Reviewer: I suggest following the pattern I used in Enrich Data with a Collection. 
1. Do the thing.
2. Explain the thing in detail (so advanced users can ignore it, new users can read it).

Even by the end, I'm kind of fuzzy about what the cargo app is supposed to be doing.

Write a name and description. If no `qlVersion` is specified, default is `2`. Do not change this value unless you are working with a version 1 stream.

```sql
@App:name('sample-cargo-app')
@App:description('Basic Stream application to demonstrate reading data from input stream and store it in the collection. The stream & collection will be created automatically if they do not already exist.')
@App:qlVersion('2')
```

### Step 3. Create Source

Example to create a source for a stream worker.

```sql
-- Defines `SampleCargoAppInputTable` Source.
CREATE SOURCE SampleCargoAppInputTable WITH (type = 'database', collection = "SampleCargoAppInputTable", collection.type="doc" , replication.type="global", map.type='json') (weight int);
```

### Step 4. Create Sink

Example to create a sink for a stream worker.

```sql
-- Defines `SampleCargoAppDestStream` Stream.
CREATE SINK STREAM SampleCargoAppDestStream (weight int);
```

### Step 5. Write and Save Query

Example query that adds data from the source into the sink.

```sql
-- Data Processing
@info(name='Query')
INSERT INTO SampleCargoAppDestStream
SELECT weight
FROM SampleCargoAppInputTable;
```

### Step 6. Add Data to the Source

> Upload the following data to the source you created:

Reviewer: How do I upload the data? Do I copy and paste it in the stream worker?

Author: @diana-macrometa Clarified this one in text - you upload it to the source collection, in this example it's a collection called SampleCargoAppInputTable

```sql
{"weight": 1}
{"weight": 2}
{"weight": 3}
{"weight": 4}
{"weight": 5}
```

> When you view the output for `SampleCargoAppDestStream`, you will see results similar to the following:

Reviewer: How do I view the output?

Author: @diana-macrometa Deleted my comment by accident, but it displays in the Stream output.

I thought you can view the Stream output in the GUI, but as I'm trying it now I'm not seeing any output.  Can you only view stream output by subscribing like a normal consumer?

```sql
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.795Z] {"weight":1}
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.799Z] {"weight":2}
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.805Z] {"weight":3}
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.809Z] {"weight":4}
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.814Z] {"weight":5}
```

## Full Demo File

The following example uses the code snippets provided in this tutorial.

```sql
@App:name('sample-cargo-app')

> @App:description('Basic Stream application to demonstrate reading data from input stream and store it in the collection. The stream & collection will be created automatically if they do not already exist.')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@App:description('Basic Stream application to demonstrate reading data from input stream and store it in the collection. The stream and collection are created automatically if they do not already exist.')
```

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Getting Started with Stream Workers
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> This page explains how to create a stream worker that reads data added to a collection and sends the data to a stream. After you create the stream worker, there are instructions for testing it. 

Reviewer: We might put the additional challenge at the end, sort of next steps, perhaps.

> This page explains how to create a stream worker that reads data added to a collection and sends the data to a stream. After you create the stream worker, there are instructions for testing it. 

Author: @dallas-macrometa @diana-macrometa How is this as a slight rewrite of Dallas's suggestion?

`This page guides you through creating your first stream worker. The stream worker in this example automatically creates a collection and a stream. Once published, the stream worker listens to the collection for new writes and adds them to the stream.`

## Create a Stream Worker

Refer to the [Stream Workers](/cep/index.md) section for an explanation of how stream workers function.

1. [Log in to your Macrometa account](https://auth-play.macrometa.io/).
1. Click **Stream Workers**.
1. In the Editor tab, define the stream worker. Copy and paste the following code block in the code editor on the Editor tab.

```sql
@App:name('sample-cargo-app')
@App:description('Basic stream worker to demonstrate reading data from a collection and sending it to a stream. The stream and collection are created automatically if they do not already exist.')
@App:qlVersion('2')

/**
Testing the Stream Worker:
    1. Open Stream `SampleCargoAppDestStream` in Console. The output can be monitored here.

    2. Upload following data into `SampleCargoAppInputTable` C8DB Collection.

>         {"weight": 1}

Reviewer: This format drives me bonkers. The users literally cannot copy and paste it and have the block work! Something to keep an eye on as we continue to improve the content.

Author: > This format drives me bonkers. The users literally cannot copy and paste it and have the block work! Something to keep an eye on as we continue to improve the content.

Agreed, when I open a JIRA to fix the sample app description, I'll have them fix the instructions as well.

        [2021-08-27T14:12:15.799Z] {"weight":2}
        [2021-08-27T14:12:15.805Z] {"weight":3}
        [2021-08-27T14:12:15.809Z] {"weight":4}
        [2021-08-27T14:12:15.814Z] {"weight":5}
*/

-- Defines `SampleCargoAppInputTable` Source.
CREATE SOURCE SampleCargoAppInputTable WITH (type = 'database', collection = "SampleCargoAppInputTable", collection.type="doc" , replication.type="global", map.type='json') (weight int);

-- Define `SampleCargoAppDestStream` Stream.
CREATE SINK STREAM SampleCargoAppDestStream (weight int);

-- Data Processing
@info(name='Query')
INSERT INTO SampleCargoAppDestStream
SELECT weight
FROM SampleCargoAppInputTable;
```

1. Click **Validate**. Macrometa checks to see that your code is valid.
1. Click **Save**.
1. Select edge locations, and then click **Save**. The locations that you select represent where the data for this stream worker will live.
1. Click **Publish** to publish your stream worker. When you do this, it will begin to run the code as defined and will continue until you unpublish it.

## Test the Stream Worker

Use the following procedure to verify that the stream worker functions as expected.

### 1. Open a Stream Window

> The Macrometa Streams console does not persist messages, so to see them, you must have the console open before you send.

Reviewer: Reorganized what? I do not see it.

1. In a new tab or window, open the Macrometa console.
1. Click **Streams**.
1. Click **c8locals.SampleCargoAppDestStream**.

### 2. Add Data to Collection and View Stream

> 

Reviewer: We didn't do it that way because there are several ways to enter a query, including in the console, the CLI, the API, and the SDK. Some users will be more advanced and comfortable with one of those other methods.

It's a good point, though. Since this is a Getting Started, it might be worth adding simplified steps.

1. Navigate to...
2. Copy the and paste into...
3. Click Run Query. The query adds the records to the collection, which you can observe as messages in the stream console.

> 

Author: Good idea, I changed it to make the instructions simpler.

> Run the following query using one of the methods described in [Running Queries](../../queryworkers/running-queries.md) to add the records to the collection. Each line is a separate record.

Reviewer: James, please run `yarn run build` before you publish to make sure that there are no broken links.

@dustinlarimer, if we could ever get our build to recognize the broken links in e2e testing, that would be great.

```sql
LET data = [
    {"weight":1},
    {"weight":2},
    {"weight":3},
    {"weight":4},

>     {"weight":5},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {"weight":5}
```

Reviewer: I was not able to run this query as written. Are you sure you tested this?

Author: Good catch!  Noticed this but forgot to fix the sample.

   ]

FOR d IN data
    INSERT d INTO SampleCargoAppInputTable
```

> The stream worker pulls the transaction information and sends it to the stream. In the stream console, you will see results similar to the following:

Reviewer: This is not transaction information. It is weight information.

```sql
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.795Z] {"weight":1}
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.799Z] {"weight":2}
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.805Z] {"weight":3}
[2021-08-27T14:12:15.809Z] {"weight":4}

> [2021-08-27T14:12:15.814Z] {"weight":5}

Reviewer: Fun thing I realized while testing this, every time you run the query, it adds records to the collection and sends messages. Might want to add a brief paragraph about that, perhaps let them know they can update the messages and play with the weights if they want to.

Reviewer 3: @diana-macrometa - FYI. This is not common. The collections don't have associated streams by default.

Reviewer: In this case, the Source is a collection.

But that is a good point, Stoyan. Should we use a different sample stream worker for our Getting Started? I thought Cargo Sample App was basically our Hello, World.

Reviewer 3: Let's keep it.

1. The collections without streams cannot be `sources`;
2. The collection with stream will be automatically created by stream worker when the source has type='database'.

Reviewer: Oooh, I'll make sure that's in the Sources section when I rewrite it.

@jamesm-macrometa, explaining that the Source here is making a collection with stream enabled is a great detail to incorporate into your explanation.
